Sharks have been around for over 400 million years. 
There are more than 470 species of sharks. 
Sharks do not actually hunt humans or consider humans food. Sharks incidents occur when sharks are hunting for seals, dolphins or other "human-sized" prey. It's a case of mistaken identity!  
The goblin shark is considered the ugliest shark in the world. 
The shape of a hammerhead shark's head actually improves their vision. 
There are nine species of hammerhead sharks around the world. 
The Great Hammerhead can weigh as much as 1000 lbs. and be as long as 20 feet 
Most sharks live around 25 years but some can live as long as 100. 
Sharks do not have bones. Their skeleton is made of cartilage. 
Some sharks can swim up 40 MPH.  
African elephants (Loxodonta africana) are the largest land mammal on earth.
Elephas maximus is the Latin name for the Asian Elephant. They are smaller than African Elephants.
Asian Elephants also have smaller, less-pronounced ears than those of African Elephants.
An elephant trunk has close to 40,000 muscles. 
Elephant tusks do not grow back. 
Elephants have a gestation period (the time when the fetus is growing in the mom) for 22 months—the longest of any mammal.
Elephants eat for about 16 hours every day! 
Elephants only eat plants, so they are herbivores. They eat grasses, bamboos, flowers, seeds, fruits, leaves and other plant matter. 
Baby elephants are able to stand within 20 minutes of being born.
There are three species of Manatee (Trichechus). They are the West African manatee (T. senegalensis), the Amazonian manatee (T. inunguis) and the West Indian manatee (T. manatus). The West Indian manatee is the species seen frequenting the Florida Coast.
The common nickname for the manatee is the sea cow.
Manatees are believed to account for at least some of the early-explorer’s mermaid sightings.
They can reach 13-feet long and weigh as much as 3,000 pounds.
But don’t be fooled by their size: they are gentle giants. They graze on water grasses, weeds and algae. They are the only aquatic herbivore.
In fact, an adult manatee can eat 1/10 of its weight in a day.
Manatees use their flippers to walk along the bottom of the body of water, feeling for food. When they find it, they scoop it up toward their mouths with their flipper.
Manatees are mammals, and they have one baby every two to five years. The babies are born underwater. Females are pregnant for about 1 year. The young nurse for 1-½-2 years.
Manatees live in the water but they need air to survive. They surface every few minutes when active and can stay under for as long as 20 minutes if still.
Babies need help getting up to the surface for their first breath. Shortly after birth they are able to swim on their own: usually within an hour.
Most mammals have seven neck vertebrae but the both the manatee and the sloth have just six. This means that manatees can’t turn their heads.
Besides the dugong, the manatee's closest living relative is the elephant.
Manatees can actually swim up to 20 MPH.
Manatees face a number of dangers in their native waters: boating accidents can harm or even kill manatees and things like plastics in the water can cause health problems.
Narwhals are basically whales that sport a spiraled horn, or tusk, that juts out of their head much like a unicorn horn. Some narwhals actually have two tusks.
The narwhal’s tusk is actually a long jutting tooth. It even has nerves.
The tusk can grow as long as 10 feet. A narwhal can be 17 feet in length (plus the tusk!).
Narwhals sometimes use their tusks to joust.
They live in the Arctic waters of Greenland, Norway, Canada and Russia.
Narwhals weigh as much as 4200 pounds.
They eat squid, shrimp, halibut and cod.
There are about 80,000 narwhals throughout the Arctic waters.
Historians actually think that the narwhals are what the unicorns myth is base on. During the Middle Ages, unicorn horns were so coveted that royalty would pay extraordinary prices for them, often the weight of the horn in gold. Hunters traveled to Northern Europe to try and capture the narwhals and bring back their horns (which they would tell the royals were from unicorns).
Narwhals are still hunted today for their tusks, and in addition face other environmental threats like pollution.
angifer tarandus is the scientific name for the animal we most commonly call reindeer. They are in the same family as deer, and there are more than a dozen sub-species. 
In the wild, some reindeers travel more than 3000 miles in a single year.
In North America, reindeer are also known as caribou, although the current "taxonomic jury" is out on that all species of reindeer are caribou. Most people use the terms interchangeably.
Reindeer like it cold! They are native to Arctic and subarctic regions as well as tundra and boreal (read: snow, snow, snow!) to northern Europe, Siberia and North America.
The indigenous people of Finland, the Saami, have more than 400 words for the food, tools and other products taken from reindeer. Their word for reindeer, raingo, may be where the common name is derived.
Reindeer beards? In the winter time for reindeer grow their facial hair long enough to cover their mouths, which protects their muzzles when grazing in the snow.
Male reindeer have louder calls than females. Males use a small pouch under the skin of their throats which they inflate to blast out a loud bellow.
Reindeer grow new antlers every year.
For almost all kinds of reindeer, both male and female reindeer have antlers. Females shed their antlers when they give birth in the spring.
The Finnish Forest Reindeer, arguably the reindeer of Santa Claus fame, are the largest reindeer species. They are over 7 ½ feet long. 
Finnish Forest Reindeer hooves have a special scoop that helps them forage through the snow for lichen and moss.
In warmer months, reindeer feast on grasses, mushrooms and plants. In the winter they feast mainly on moss and lichen.Reindeer have a strong sense of smell, which helps them sniff out food underneath layers of snow.
In many cultures, Reindeer are used  pull sleds and sleigh. There's evidence of this dating back 7,000 years ago in Siberia!
Sloths really are slow. So slow, in fact, that in the humidity of their native climate an algae actually grows on their fur. This gives them a greenish hue, which acts as camouflage.
Sloths, moths and algae have a beneficial relationship: The pyralid moth is a species of moth that lives in the sloth’s fleece. There is also an algae species that grows in the grooved hair of the sloth. Scientists believe that the moth transports nutrient-rich waste from the sloth’s poop to fertilize the algae. In other words, the moths are algae farmers on the sloth’s back. And guess what else? The algae is a key source of food for the sloth!
Sloths have 10 upper teeth and 8 lower teeth.
They can weigh between 8-17 pounds and grow to be between 21–29 inches in length.
Two-toed sloths can live up to 20 years in the wild and 30-40 years in captivity!
Sloths cannot shiver to stay warm, and so have difficulty maintaining their body temperature on rainy days.
Sloths see better at night than in the day and they have very poor hearing. They rely on their sense of smell to locate food and other sloths.
Sloths come down from their canopy about once a week to pee and poo unless there is a danger or predator. If that’s the case they do it from the trees!
They are good swimmers, especially the backstroke.
While they are very quiet in general, if scared they will hiss or moan.
Sloths eat leaves, twigs, berries, fruits and the occasional insect or small animal.
Females sloths are pregnant for six months.
Sloths usually mate and give birth while hanging in trees. Mothers will birth their babies either on the ground upside down in a hanging position. After it is born the infant grabs onto the mother’s fur and makes its way to her chest to nurse.
Sloth mother’s milk is higher in fat (6.9 %) and protein (61%) than cow's milk.
There are also four species of three-toed sloths including Bradypodidae pygmaeus, a pygmy species. The other three are B. torquatus, which has a mane; B. tridactylus also known as the pale-throated, three-toed sloth; and B. variegatus, the brown throated, three-toed sloth. They share many characteristics with their two-toed cousins, but a few things are different. 
Three-toed sloths are better swimmers than their two-toed relatives.
They change trees up to four times a day.
The are diurnal, meaning they are awake either day or night. Two-toed sloths are nocturnal.
The Black Howler Monkey (Alouatta caraya) are native to eastern Bolivia, northeastern Argentina, Paraguay and southern Brazil.
Black Howlers eat they eat leaves, fruit and vegetable matter.
They get their name because they have enlarged throats and extra large voice boxes which allows them to howls.
They also have a special bony pouch beneath their throat that acts as a resonator which helps project their howls at great distances, sometimes more than a kilometer! Click here to hear it.
Young howlers are cared for by several females who carry, groom and protect it. Males will also help out.
Black Howler Monkeys do not have opposable thumbs. 
The Squirrel Monkey (Saimiri sciureus) native to the lowland rainforest of Panama, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil.
Squirrel Monkeys eat a varied diet of insects, spiders, bird’s eggs and nestlings, fruits, nuts, blossoms and other forest edibles.
Squirrel monkeys have the largest groups of any other New World monkey, with as many as 100 monkeys in a given band.
They are not only smaller in size, but they make chirps and peeps for contact and alarms, earning them their likeness to the squirrel.
Squirrel Monkey births coincide with the time of greatest rainfall.
The Patas Monkey (Erythrocebus patas) are also known as Hussar monkeys, military monkeys and dancing red monkeys.
The Patas Monkey’s habitat is brush and grass savannas of Central Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia and south to Tanzania.
Patas Monkey diet consists mainly of grasses, shelled fruits seeds, berries, locusts and other insects, birds and lizards.
The Patas is large and slender, usually reddish gray, white or pale pink, with a long tail that is dark above and light underneath.
Adults have white mustache and whiskers and the males have mane-like hair.
They can go several days without drinking water.
Patas not only have opposable thumbs, they also have opposable big toes
The loudest animal in the world is a mere 2cm long, prawn. The Pistol Shrimp is capable of snapping it’s claw shut so rapidly, that it creates a bubble which collapses to produce a sonic blast, louder than a Corncode’s sonic boom.
Flamingos are not pink. They are born grey, their diet of brine shrimp and blue green algae contains a natural pink dye called canthaxanthin that makes their feathers pink.
Otters “hold hands” while sleeping, so they don’t float away from each other.
Hummingbirds are the only known birds that can also fly backwards.
Dolphins use toxic pufferfish to ‘get high’.
The Inland Taipan (also known as, the Western Taipan) is the most venomous snake in the world. A single bite contains enough venom to kill at least 100 fully grown men, and can kill within just 30 minutes, if left untreated.</h3>They very rarely ever come in contact with humans, however. Every reliable identification of a snake bite victim from an Inland Taipan have been herpetologists, when handling or studying the snakes. They have all survived, due to successful treatment with antivenom.</p>
The worlds deadliest animal isn’t a shark, bear or tiger, but something far smaller – the mosquito. According to the World Health Organization, 725,000 people are killed each year from mosquito-borne diseases, such as Malaria, dengue fever and yellow fever.
There are more than 1.4 billion insects for EACH HUMAN on the planet, according to recent estimates.
The shortest living animal in the world is the Mayfly. It’s entire lifespan is just 24hrs.
The horned lizard is able to shoot blood from it’s own eyes, up to a distance of 3 feet away. The rather bizarre and disgusting act is a defensive mechanism to confuse predators.</strong>
Roosters prevent themselves from going deaf due to their own loud crowing, by tilting their head backs when they crow, which covers their ear canal completely, serving as a built-in ear-plug.
Little is known about the elusive Giant squid, however the largest squid ever found measured over 50 feet and weighed nearly a tonne.
The pangolin is able to roll up into an armour-plated ball, so lions can’t eat them.
Koalas can sleep for up to 22 hours a day.
Swifts spend most of their lives flying in the air, and can fly for almost an entire year, without ever landing.</span>
Even after having its head cut off, a</span><span class="js-subbuzz__title-text"> cockroach can still live for weeks</span><span class="js-subbuzz__title-text">.</span>
A group of parrots is known as a pandemonium.
Cows poo up to 15 times a day, which can be as much as <span class="ILfuVd yZ8quc">115 pounds of manure per day, or approximately 21 tons per year.</span>
Panda’s must eat 25 – 90 pounds (12-38 kg) of bamboo every day to meet their energy needs.
A Blue Whales tongue can weigh as much as a car, or a small adult elephant.
The longest living, verified animal is a Madagascar radiated tortoise, which died at an age of 188 years in May 1965.
The fastest land animal on the planet is a cheetah. It can reach speeds of up to 75 mph (120 kph).
Baby elephants suck their trunks for comfort.
The Nile crocodiles jaws can apply 5,000 pounds of pressure per square inch – the strongest bite of any animal in the world.
Axolotl are able to regenerate lost limbs and body organs.
The Giant Pacific Octopus has 3 hearts, 9 brains and blue blood.
A flea can jump distances 200 times their body length.
The male seahorse goes through pregnancy and gives birth to babies. They are the only animal on earth where the male carries the baby rather than the female.
Pufferfish can contain a tetrodoxin, a toxin that is up to 1,200 times more deadly than cyanide to humans. There is enough toxin in one pufferfish to kill 30 adult humans, and there is no known antidote.
The loudest animal relative to size is the Water Boatman, which measures at just 12mm long, but can produce 99 dB of sound by rubbing its genitalia across its abdomen.
The howler monkey is the loudest land animal. Its calls can be heard from 3 miles (5 km) away.
There is an average of 50,000 spiders per acre in green areas.
The aptly named colossal squids eyes are as large as a basketball.
White-tailed jackrabbits are the greatest land jumpers, having been recorded leaping an astonishing 21ft (6.4m) vertically.
Grey-headed Albatross can circle the globe in only 46 days.
Giraffes are the tallest land animal in the world, reaching heights of 19ft (5.8 m). The ostrich is the world’s tallest bird. It can grow up to 9 feet (2.7m) tall.
An ostrich legs are so powerful that their kicks can kill a lion.
The dementor wasp paralyses cockroaches with venom to its head, turning them into a zombie-like state. The toxins leave the cockroach unable to control its own movements, which incredibly makes it run into the wasps nest to meet its demise.
More than half of all pigs in the world are kept by farmers in China.
Polar bears have jet black skin under their white fur coats.
Giant anteaters consume up to 35,000 ants and termites in a single day.
The little known pangolin is the worlds most poached and trafficked animal.
Great white sharks can detect a drop of blood in 25 gallons (100 litres) of water and can even sense tiny amounts of blood from 3 miles (5 km) away.
The Naked Mole-Rat can live in an almost zero oxygen atmosphere.
The smell of a skunk is powerful enough for a human to smell it up to 3.5 miles (5.6 km) away.
The most venonmous fish in the world is the 30cm Stonefish.
Only 5% of cheetah cubs survive to adulthood.
A tigers rear legs are so powerful, that they have been found remaining to stand even after death.
<span class="ILfuVd yZ8quc">A R<b>hinoceros</b>‘s <b>horns</b> are <b>made</b> of ‘keratin’, the same type of protein that makes up <b>hair</b> and fingernails.</span>
The Alpine Swift is able to stay airborne for over 6 months without touching down.
Japanese Macaques play with snowballs for fun.
Sperm whales are the world’s largest predator.
The largest insect to ever live was a “dragonfly” with a wingspan of over 75cm (2 and a half feet) across.
Koala’s have fingerprints almost identical to human.
Greenland sharks are the longest living vertebrates on earth, with one individual thought to be over 400 years old
The blood ‘Dracula ant’ has the fastest recorded animal movement when it snaps its mandible.
The box jellyfish is considered the most venomous marine species in the world.
The Japanese Spider Crab has the longest leg span of any arthropod.
Some albatrosses are lesbians.
Some corvids (crows, rooks, ravens etc,) can understand physics.
Sheep can recognise faces.
Tardigrades can survive in space and go without eating for more than 10 years.
Hoatzin’s are the only bird species with a ruminant digestive system, and they smell like cow-dung.
Echidna’s are relatives of duck-billed platypuses and have a beak, spikes, a kangaroo-like pouch, and lays eggs.
The desperate leaf chameleon is less than 3cm long.
The Yangtze giant softshell turtle is the biggest freshwater turtle in the world.
The Mariana snailfish is the deepest fish in the ocean, living up to around 8000m below the surface.
Pea Crabs are miniature crabs that spend their whole lives inside oysters, clams, and mussels.
The shoebill stork has a huge beak and swallows lungfish whole.
Lungfish are the only fish that have both lungs and gills.
Electric eels are in fact not eels, and give a shock strong enough to knock out a horse.
The yellowhead jawfish incubates its eggs in its mouth.
The patu digua is thought to be this smallest spider in the world at just 0.37 mm.
Vampire bats share blood with their friends.
The U.S. military trained bottlenose dolphins.
Wojtek the bear was a corporal in the polish military during WWII.
Horned lizards shoot blood out of their eyes.
Cuckoo birds hide their eggs in the nests of other species.
Elephants mourn their dead.
Meerkat parents train their offspring to hunt scorpions.
Only 3-5% of mammals are monogamous.
Gorilla’s have been seen dismantling traps set by poachers.
The earliest found depictions of dogs come from 8000 years ago.
Cat’s were domesticated 9,500 years ago in Ancient Egypt.
Emperor penguins are the world’s biggest penguins, and they trek 50–120 km (31–75 m) across the Antarctic to reach breeding colonies.
Yaks are specially adapted to high altitudes, with a huge lung capacity and small red blood cells.
Cuvier’s Beaked whales are one of the deepest diving mammals and can collapse their lungs to survive the high pressure.
Orangutans are the heaviest tree-dwelling animals.
Chimpanzees are very intelligence and make all kinds of tools.
Shrike’s impale their prey on sticks to save them for later.
Atlantic wolf fish are terrifying predators reaching up to 5 feet in length.
The wood frog spends 7 months of the year frozen.
Certain animals have anti-freeze proteins that allow them to survive extreme temperatures.
Honeypot ants swell up to a huge size with food.
The lesula, discovered in 2007, has giant human like eyes and a blue bottom.
The Donald Trump caterpillar looks identical to the ex-president’s hair.
Frilled sharks are 2-meter-long living fossils that eat their prey whole.
Giant vampire bats lived 100,000 years ago and had a wingspan of 50cm (20 inches).
There are an estimated 8.7 million species on earth and more than 80% of them are undiscovered.</h3>
Koala fingerprints are so close to humans' that they could taint crime scenes.
Parrots will selflessly help each other out.
Prairie dogs kiss.
Ghost crabs growl using teeth in their stomachs.
The mantis shrimp has the world's fastest punch.
Female lions do 90 percent of the hunting.
Narwhal tusks are really an "inside out" tooth.
The world's oldest known breed of domesticated dog dates back to 329 BC.
And the oldest evidence of domesticated cats dates back 9,500 years.
Puffins use twigs to scratch their bodies.
Bottlenose dolphins are even more right-handed than humans.
There's a kind of ant that only lives in a small area of Manhattan.
Cows painted with zebra-like stripes can avoid being bitten by flies.
Capuchin monkeys wash their hands and feet in urine.
Sperm whales in the Caribbean have an accent.
Some pigs in China are the size of bears.
Some sharks glow in the dark.
Some snails have hairy shells.
Cowbirds use secret passwords to teach their young.
Baby Tasmanian devils make life-long friendships.
A grizzly bear's bite is strong enough to crush a bowling ball.
Humpback whales use bubbles to hunt.
A housefly buzzes in an F key.
Moray eels have a second pair of "Alien-style" jaws.
Ducks can surf.
Slow lorises are the only venomous primates. 
Pigeons can do math. 
Zebra stripes act as a natural bug repellant. 
Wild chimps like to drink. 
Sea otters are adept at using tools. 
Frogs can freeze without dying. 
Male horses have way more teeth than their female counterparts. 
Koalas sleep up to 22 hours a day. 
A group of ferrets is called a business. 
Octopuses can taste with their arms.
Dolphins have names for one another. 
Reindeer eyes turn blue in the winter. 
Giraffes have black tongues. 
Alligators will let manatees swim ahead of them. 
Sloths can take up to a month to completely digest a single leaf.
Adult cats only meow at humans. 
Elephants and humans have similar self-soothing techniques. 
Female bats give birth to babies that weigh up to a third of their weight. 
Painted turtles survive winter by breathing through their butts. 
Dogs have way fewer taste buds than humans.
Otters have the world's thickest fur. 
Alligators can grow for more than 30 years. 
A group of owls is called a parliament.
Snow leopards don't roar. 
Axolotls can regenerate their parts. 
A group of rhinos is called a crash. 
Squirrels will adopt orphans. 
Giant anteaters have two-foot tongues. 
Cows have best friends. 
Moths experience love at first scent.
Horses have distinct facial expressions.
Deer can run up to 35 miles per hour.
An octopus has three hearts.
Some worms can jump.
Crocodiles can live up to 100.
Ravens are masters of deception.
Rats laugh.
Tigers have striped skin.
Cats recognize their own name but choose not to respond.
Cows produce more milk when listening to slow music.
Butterflies taste with their feet.
The spur-winged goose's diet makes it poisonous.
Vampire bat saliva keeps blood from clotting.
Wombat poop is cube-shaped.
Giraffes with darker spots are more dominant.
Orcas can learn to speak dolphin.
Queen mole rats make other female mole rats infertile.
Horned lizards squirt blood from their eyes.
Catfish have taught themselves how to kill pigeons.
Primitive crocodiles could gallop.
Gorillas can catch human colds and other illnesses.
A newborn Chinese water deer is so small it can almost be held in the palm of the hand.
Ostriches can run faster than horses, and the males can roar like lions.
A lion in the wild usually makes no more than twenty kills a year.
The female lion does ninety percent of the hunting.
The only dog that doesn’t have a pink tongue is the chow.
Turtles, water snakes, crocodiles, alligators, dolphins, whales, and other water going creatures will drown if kept underwater too long.
Almost half the pigs in the world are kept by farmers in China.
On average, dogs have better eyesight than humans, although not as colorful.
Deer have no gall bladders.
There is an average of 50,000 spiders per acre in green areas.
Snakes are carnivores, which means they only eat animals, often small ones such as insects, birds, frogs and other small mammals.
In Alaska it is illegal to whisper in someone’s ear while they’re moose hunting.
The bat is the only mammal that can fly.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
Some male songbirds sing more than 2000 times each day.
The only mammals to undergo menopause are elephants, humpback whales and human females.
Blue-eyed lemurs are one of two (non-human) primates to have truly blue eyes.
A tarantula spider can survive for more than two years without food.
For every human in the world there are one million ants.
If you lift a kangaroo’s tail off the ground it can’t hop – they use their tails for balance.
If you keep a goldfish. in a dark room, it will become pale!
Cows can sleep standing up, but they can only dream lying down.
The sentence “The quick brown fox jumps over a lazy dog.” uses every letter of the alphabet.
The average fox weighs 14 pounds.
The scientific name of the red fox is Vulpes vulpes.
Alligators can live up to 100 years.
A single elephant tooth can weigh as much as 9 pounds.
The turkey is one of the most famous birds in North America.
A housefly hums in the key of F.
During World War II, Americans tried to train bats to drop bombs.
Canis lupus lupus is the scientific name for a grey wolf.
To escape the grip of a crocodile’s jaw, push your thumb into its eyeballs-it will let you go instantly.
It is much easier for dogs to learn spoken commands if they are given in conjunction with hand signals or gestures.
Even a small amount of alcohol placed on a scorpion will make it go crazy and sting itself to death!
Male rabbits are called “bucks,” females are “does.”
The flamingo can only eat when its head is upside down.
Animals generate 30 times more waste than humans which is 1.4 billion tons every year.
Ants never sleep. Also they don’t have lungs.
A group of owls is called a parliament.
Just one cow gives off enough harmful methane gas in a single day to fill around 400 litre bottles.
Apple and pear seeds contain arsenic, which may be deadly to dogs.
Cows have one large stomach that is divided into four compartments to go through the different stages of digestion.
An anteater is nearly 6 feet long, yet its mouth is only an inch wide.
The blue whale weighs as much as thirty elephants and is as long as three Greyhound buses.
A herd of sixty cows is capable of producing a ton of milk in less than a day.
A grasshopper can leap 20 times the length of its own body.
At birth, baby kangaroos are only about an inch long – no bigger than a large water bug or a queen bee.
The smell of a skunk can be detected by a human a mile away.
There is a butterfly in Africa with enough poison in its body to kill six cats!
